In this lecture we'll introduce
the topic of text classification and
the naive Bayes algorithm which
is one of the most important
ways of doing text classification.
Let's begin by looking at some examples
of text classification applications.
Here, I've shown an email that I
actually received the other day.
How do I know that this e-mail is spam?
Take a look at the mail and think of some
features you might automatically extract
from this e-mail that
tells you that its spam.
You might notice the word great,
a misspelling of great, so
we have a typo here.
Maybe you might notice important notice,
and maybe an exclamation point.
It's pretty rare that universities
put exclamation points in their
subject headers.
You might notice that there's no Dan here.
It's not addressed to me in particular.
We have undisclosed recipients,
and there's no particular address.
And the URL's a little funny here.
That's not a Stanford URL.
Maybe the word exciting.
Each of these features can be combined in
a classifier to give us some evidence that
we've got a piece of spam.
Another important text classification
task is authorship attribution.
How do I know which author
wrote which piece of text?
One of the most famous examples
of authorship attribution
is the famous anonymous essays
called The Federalist Papers
that were written at the beginning
of the history of our country
in part to convince the state of New York
to ratify the early constitution.
And three authors wrote various
numbers of the letters.
But 12 of the letters,
it wasn't clear which author wrote.
And in 1963, the And
in 1963, Mosteller and Wallace showed that
Bayesian methods were able to distinguish
which letters were written by Madison and
which letters were written by Hamilton.
And the Bayesian methods that
they used in 1963 gave rise
to the naive Bayes method that we're
going to be talking about today.
Another text classification
task is gender identification,
determining if an author is male or
female.
Recent research in gender
identification has shown that
we can look at the number of pronouns and
other features, the number of determiners,
the number of noun phrases,
are subtlety indicative of the difference
between male and female writers.
Female writers tend to use more pronouns,
and
male writers tend to use more facts and
determiners in their noun phrases.
And you can see from that,
that here we have a lot of pronouns.
And here we have a lot of determiners and
factual sentences with copula verbs.
And so, you might determine that this is,
in fact, a male, and this is a female.
And that would be correct.
This is the author Margaret Drabble,
and this is the author Anthony Grey.
Another text classification
task is sentiment analysis.
And one of the classic sentiment analysis
tasks is movie review identification.
Given a review, whether it's a movie or
a product, can I tell whether this
review is positive or negative?
And although I'm going to show you an
example here for movies, this could apply
to any product review for any product or
service that you might find on the web.
And this is actually a very
important commercial application.
So, suppose we saw a review that
said unbelievably disappointing.
Well, that's clearly a negative review.
How about full of zany characters and
richly applied satire?
Positive.
How about this is the greatest
screwball comedy ever filmed?
We've got words like greatest,
or greatest ever.
That's very positive.
How about it was pathetic, the worst
part about it was the boxing scenes.
Here we've got evidence like pathetic and
worst, and so on to tell us that this is,
in fact, a negative review.
Text classification often
We also apply text classification
to scientific articles.
For example,
deciding what the topic of a particular
article in a database
like MEDLINE might be.
For example, we might have to decide, in
automatically indexing an article, which
of various subjects, antagonist, or blood
supply, or drug therapy, or epidemiology,
apply to any particular article that's
written, that's in our database.
So, in summary, text classification
is the task of assigning any kind of
topic category to any piece of text, and
that could be subject categories in
some kind of an online database.
It can be detecting spam.
It can be choosing an author
from a set of authors.
Choosing their gender,
or maybe it's their age.
You want to find young writers or
old writers.
Telling if a text was written in one
language versus another language.
And the important commercial
application of sentiment analysis.
All of these are examples
of text classification.
Let's define the task
We have as input a document, d.
And then a fixed set of classes, a set c,
with j classes c1, c2, up til cj.
And our goal, given this document and
this set of classes, is to predict
a class c from that set of classes.
Or our job is to take a document and
assign a class to that document.
How do we do this?
The simplest possible text classification
method is to use hand written rules.
So, for example, if we're doing spam
detection we might just have a list of
bad e-mail addresses, a black list,
that these people are probably spammers.
Or we might look for
phrases like millions of dollars or
you have been selected, which are good
indications that we have spam.
And if these rules are carefully
refined by an expert,
you can get high accuracy
from hand written rules.
But in general, building and
maintaining these rules is expensive.
So although hand-coded rules are often
used as part of a system of text
classification, we generally combine
that with an important method for
machine learning.
This method is supervised
So, in supervised machine learning, we
have a document, d, just as we did before.
And a fixed set of classes,
as we did before.
But we need one more thing now.
We need a training set of some documents
that have been hand-labeled for
their class.
So we have, for document one,
we know that it's in class one.
For document two,
it's in some other class.
Maybe for document m, we have a label for
the class of document m.
So given the document,
the set of classes, and
the training set of hand-labeled
documents, the goal of machine learning
is to produce a classifier, and we'll be
using gamma to refer to the classifier.
And gamma's a function that, given
a new document, will give us the class.
So given a set of training
labels of documents and classes,
we'll learn a classifier that
maps a document to a class.
There's lot's of kinds of
machine learning classifiers.
We're going to talk today
about Naive Bayes, but
we'll look later in the course we'll
talk about Logistical regression, and
we'll touch on other kinds of classifiers
like Support Vector machines also called
SVMs, K-nearest Neighbors,
lot of other classifiers.
No matter which classifier we use,
the task of text classification
is to take a document, its text,
other kinds of features, and extract
features that represent the document and
build a classifier that can tell us
which class the document belongs to.